baddest yen all of us walk past the same
spectacle of you know dismembered and
animal corpses at the grocery store
everyday or at the market we all see the
the animals going off the slaughterhouse
in the same trucks we're all really
presented with the same stimuli you know
the question is there to be asked is
well-known most children ask these
questions whether it's about going
fishing or hunting or just seeing seeing
a lobster being chopped up on a plate I
mean sooner or later it becomes self
evident to all of us in childhood or
adulthood
this is a living animal being chopped up
it's that whole process economically
ecologically and culturally there's
something that will stop you from
looking at all that as evil as error as
something that for hundreds of years has
gone unchallenged and even celebrated
and now we have to jettison as you know
unwanted baggage I think it's really
important to discard the sense of our
own specialness to not regard ourselves
as as the exception but to question why
it is that the people we've known you
know deeply and over the long term what
is it about them that's exceptional that
lets them not see this that lets them
never acknowledge it or never respond to
it either with this inevitable
inexorable set of questions or this one
simple answer that this is an evil you
can extricate your yourself from that
this is an evil you don't have to
compromise with
about us yen it popped into my head now
while I was in the shower to make a
video examining not so much why I did
become vegan but why my own parents
didn't and the more I thought about it I
thought this is really a deep and
interesting subject for myself and other
vegans on YouTube to examine of course
inevitably if you give an honest answer
it's gonna reflect the idiosyncrasy of
Cinque receives keep all like no edits
no take to the idiosyncrasies of who
your own parents happen to be but it's
also going to reveal some general if not
quite universal trends questions and
tendencies in the culture of our time
I mean we're partly talking about a
generation gap yes but I think we're
partly also talking about political
cultural even personal factors as to why
it is that for some of us it seems
almost inevitable and inexorable that we
become vegan and can't quit and for
others it's either unthinkable or
inconceivable or something they can just
barely imagine on the edges of what's
possible but that they could never
really commit to and I think I speak for
the majority of us the vast majority of
vegans have to deal with an unbridgeable
gulf between themselves and their
parents sometimes if you married
unwisely you may have to deal with a
similar gulf between you and your
partner also for my own parents I
genuinely think the single most
important factor here is what we would
call in political science statism a very
deep and unquestioned assumption that if
this were important the government would
have already done something about it now
I just recently talked to my mom about
this and I pushed her a little bit on
the fact that that my parents even
though they were kind of dissidents
within Canadian politics they had this
really deep unshakable faith that
whatever the Canadian school board was
doing whatever the Canadian school
system was teaching me was completely
adequate and there's nothing that they
as parents could possibly have to add to
it I think my parents are
an extreme example of this appointed in
separate conversations will might my
mother my father never once did they
help me write an essay never once did
they even check or proofread as they
never once did they go to the library
with me never once did they teach me how
to research an essay never once did they
help me prepare for or study for a test
they had absolutely zero scrutiny of
what I was learning absolutely zero
positive engagement of course you could
just interpret that as neglect and yes
there's an objective sense in which it's
true
they were just neglectful parents that
just didn't give a damn but on a deeper
level it really was built on this
foundation of faith in the government
that they just absolutely believed that
whatever the government was teaching me
was adequate and that there were no
questions to be asked there were no
problems for the parents to solve and
there was no positive role for the
parents that's all and in all my years
to talk to them about say ecological
issues you had to deal with that same
faith you really kind of precluded these
questions even being asked like if there
were a polluted river they believed the
government would have done something
about if there were something unsafe of
the slaughterhouse conditions you know
in terms of meat poisoning if there were
a problem with drinking water if there
were a problem with air pollution you
know the government would have done
something but if I now now in a country
like Canada
you know Canada is a wealthy but
medium-sized country deeply in debt
we're constantly closing down social
services and schools in hospitals you
get reminders about just how creaky and
imperfect the infrastructure of Governor
is gonna you might ask well how is it
possible for him to think that the the
government is is so omnipotent well I
really have to reinforce here
this isn't something they really
consciously and clearly you know what
would enunciate as their own theory it
wasn't a theoretical view of the world
they committed to I think it really was
a deep and unexamined assumption or
belief that they that
live with and again some of you
reflecting on your own parents may be
able to see some parallels here and of
course for some of you instead you know
look I can imagine maybe you have
Catholic parents and their faith was
specifically in the Catholic school
board not the government school board
you know there's a mixture of religion
or what-have-you but of course in my
parents case it was the mixture of the
belief in the state in the government in
statism as such and of course the family
religion really was communism and that
belief in the omnipotence of government
and just ultimately the goodwill of
government is of course very compatible
with the totalitarian aspect of
communism and socialism and what they
entail and the same excuses that they
were making for the Soviet Union and for
China the word you know no matter how
many people got massacred or how many
people were starving to death or how
many disasters were reversed the
newspaper from month of months that they
had to believe they had to believe it
was all for the best or if there was a
real problem you know the government in
question would have done something about
it so you can see there's a sense in
which that even has to seep through into
how they perceive the government of
canada even if on some level they also
criticize and vilify the Government of
Canada as capitalist bourgeois etc so
the second heading here which definitely
came up my whole life
I even remember talking with as my
grandmother who was not a communist is
nationalism and in Canada's case
especially for left-wingers in Canada
nationalism in large part coincides with
anti Americanism right but I have talked
to Europeans about this never really
talked about much with people in Asia
many many many Canadians would believe
this must be going on a style just now
finally they would they would
immediately react
any news about food poisoning from meat
or about inhumane conditions on factory
farms they would immediately react by
saying well that happens in America but
that would never happen here I remember
talking to Swedes about this people in
Sweden who would believe that terrible
things happened in the fur industry in
Russia but that somehow when you cross
the border from Russia into Sweden that
nothing like this happened each of those
going to Sweden Norway Finland they all
have their own struggles with
the fur industry and of course meat
industry of various kinds but I've heard
that people in that part of Europe that
this really unexamined nationalist
knee-jerk delusion it really does in a
significant way preclude the possibility
of of becoming vegan that as long as you
you have the sense I mean for me I
encounter it even when I talk to people
who say that they only eat locally grown
meat or locally raised meat you know
locally locally produced dairy and my
response to that face to face of them is
to ask them well do you assume that a
local hospital is superior to a hospital
in the in the capital city you know you
think it has higher standards of Hygiene
so that they have better doctors or
better procedures and say no see isn't
it possible that a local slaughterhouse
is just as bad as or worse than a
slaughterhouse in the capital city and
you know already you can imagine where
that conversation cuts it's pretty easy
to start chipping away at the surgery
but again these aren't theories that
these people subscribe to you know sort
of conscious an exam away they're really
unexamined assumptions and beliefs again
the first being statism a generalized
belief of the government and the second
being nationalism even if that
nationalism is primarily in a kind of
negative form of people in you know
northern Europe assuming that whatever's
happening across the border in Russia is
worse and definitely I remember there
was this scandal some of you will
remember at some won't
in Europe the the horse meat lasagna
scandal and the response to this scandal
definitely in both France and Germany
was this kind of universal chorus of
people claiming oh well that sort of
thing might happen in Hungary or Romania
but it would never happen here that
somehow you know even though in the
European Union now all those industries
are integrated to an unbelievable extent
there really is kind of one national
market for meat and for you know various
forms of agricultural products that it
was unthinkable that this could happen
in France it was unthinkable this could
happen in Germany but somehow when you
cross the dotted line into these more
exotic
Eastern European countries that that was
conceivable to them that there would be
these lower standards whether it's of
health hygiene or of animal suffering so
again it's funny but I think one time
when here's the difference between
people for whom approaching veganism
either happens spontaneously or maybe it
seemed natural or inevitable and people
for whom it seemed inconceivable I think
this is actually a major difference in
my case between myself and my parents
but definites the difference within the
current of the current generation to now
in third and finally of this video I
think one of the most profound shaping
influences in our lives be our
assumptions about high culture about
what you know what is refined culture
but you know ultimately is getting down
to a concept of what is good even though
both of my parents you know worshiped a
form of totalitarian communism found in
Russia and China their concept of high
culture really was you know of French
culture and Italian culture both I would
say and now okay my father grew up in a
steel mill town Hamilton Ontario
working-class with a single mother who
literally worked in a steel factory you
know you can look at that in a sort of
sympathetic light and say okay this guy
grew up after World War two you don't a
very unsophisticated part of Canada it's
very unsophisticated person and from an
early age he started visiting Europe and
really looking up to this culture you
know again as high and refined culture
without questioning why in a very real
sense I mean for my father it's amazing
because he did so much research so many
things that could have raised questions
about this he did research about you
know indigenous people in Canada First
Nations of Canada the history of
colonialism and imperialism mechanic
whatever want to say there are really
many many junctions life which he could
have stopped and questioned this value
but I think it's fair to say he never
did and of course you know his
involvement with say Chinese communism
and his travels throughout Asia and
Africa
at any point I mean this is a piece of
baggage he could have put down but he
absolutely never did and if that is your
idea of high culture whether you're
living in Italy now or Italy as a
far-off distant and exotic place to you
I think that really is a very effective
mental block against you even thinking
through the possibility of looking at
what's on your plate what's in your
fridge what's at the grocery store and
then what's coming down the highway from
the farm and the slaughterhouse that
whole process economically ecologically
and culturally there's something that
will stop you from looking at all that
as evil as error as something that for
hundreds of years has gone unchallenged
and even celebrated and now we have to
jettison as you know unwanted baggage to
recycle it's a regrettable and even
awful part of our culture and
civilization I think that's a corner he
never could turn that's something that
that remained unthinkable for him and we
can't make excuses here my father
enrolled to do a PhD and he started
doing PT he got a full scholarship to do
a PhD on Hinduism as a religion and I
remember asking about this this is when
I was a child well okay I I guess I
wasn't a child I guess I would have been
in university sorry a long long time ago
I remember asking him directly well look
if you were involved with Hinduism to
this extent you know why didn't you
consider becoming vegetarian at that
juncture and he answered simply he sort
of had a pause and he looked at me he
said well you can't be very serious
about Hinduism without becoming
vegetarian he seemed to be kind of
conceding the point but again someone
who studied history and culture of India
he started learning Sanskrit and flunked
out of it you know China all these other
influences for him to choose between he
could have let go of this appraisal of
French in Italian culture he could have
at least
start to take on a more critical
comparative awareness that the different
cultures had had different advantages
and disadvantages but it's fair to say
he absolutely never did hey guys so this
is an unusual video because I'm really
gonna encourage you guys to make videos
of your own I really think this is
something you know productive to reflect
on I maybe in your case it won't be
comparing yourself to your own parents
maybe you'll be you're comparing
yourself to your your boyfriend or your
husband or what have you but many of my
viewers do have you know their own
YouTube channels and I think it's worth
pressing past a sort of shallow
immediate answer of you know like well
I'm somehow special I'm somehow
exceptional therefore I put the pieces
together and became vegan
all of us walk past the same spectacle
of you know dismembered and animal
corpses at the grocery store every day
or at the market we all see the the
animals going off the slaughterhouse in
the same trucks we're all really
presented with the same stimuli you know
the question is there to be asked that
is well-known most children ask these
questions whether it's about going
fishing or hunting or just seeing seeing
a lobster being chopped up on a plate I
mean sooner or later it becomes self
evident to all of us in childhood or
adulthood this is a living animal being
chopped up and sooner or later the other
facts about ecology economics etc you
know also also have to be raised not to
mention of course health questions blah
blah blah I think it's really important
to discard the sense of our own
[Music]
specialness to not regard ourselves as
as the exception but to question why it
is that the people we've known you know
deeply and over the long term what is it
about them that's exceptional that lets
them not see this that lets them never
acknowledge it or never respond to it
either with this inevitable inexorable
set of questions or this one simple
answer that this is an evil you can
extricate your yourself from that this
is an evil you don't
have to compromise with a bonus yell